---
title: "R Demostration 1"
classes: wide
permalink: /data/r/demo1
sidebar:
  nav: "data"
---

In this demonstration, I will go over some basic R syntax as well as how to start utilizing some of the most popular R packages! Remember, all this functionality is completely free!

### Task: Download excel workbooks from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and clean them into one combined excel workbook.

We will start my downloading *four seperate* excel workbooks from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Follow [this link](https://data.bls.gov/cgi-bin/surveymost?bls) and click the check boxes for the following labor data series indicators in the "Employment" section:

- Civilian Labor Force (Seasonally Adjusted) - LNS11000000
- Civilian Employment (Seasonally Adjusted) - LNS12000000
- Civilian Unemployment (Seasonally Adjusted) - LNS13000000
- Unemployment Rate (Seasonally Adjusted) - LNS14000000

Then scroll down to the bottom of the page and click "Retrieve data". 

You can see all of the four labor labor indicators you chose appear in nice little tables and allow for you to download each of the indicators into their own excel workbook. Download them all and take a quick look at what they currently look like.

#### Your task is to clean up these files so they only have two columns each: one for the date and another for their respective data.

Now, it is important to remember that you can accomplish this task by only using excel -> clicking and dragging on cells, rows, and colums to get the data to look like what you want. You do not need to use R to complete this task. Hoewver, if this is a routine task you need to do on a weekly or monthly basis, using R to automate this cleaning process will save you a lot of time and headache in the future. The purpose of "Beginner Coding for Excel Users" is to help Excel users quickly finish their tasks, and even automate them to save time in the future.



Save them in their own folder somewhere with their own unique names. This is where I am going to save my files and what I am going to name them:

- C:\Users\Owner\Documents\Demo1
- Labor Force.xlsx
- Employment.xlsx
- Unemployment.xlsx
- Unemployment Rate.xlsx

I recommend you use the same file names and locations - this wil make things easier for us later.

Now open up RStudio. If you haven't installed R and RStudio to your machine before, I recommend you follow the instructions to do so [here](https://andrewaferrante.github.io/data/r/).

With RStudio open, you might see three distinct panels with different useful information. I recommend watching [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FIrsOBy5k58) that explains what the different panels are for. 

Open a new "R Script" in File -> New File -> R Script. This is where we are going to write all of our code.



```
setwd('C:/Users/Owner/Documents')
```


```
install.packages('readxl')
install.packages('writexl')
install.packages('dplyr')
install.packages('tidyr')
```




```
library(readxl)
library(writexl)
library(dplyr)
library(tidyr)
```
